hi here's the latest thing I've been
working on and I'm calling this the
Kazaam light and the reason we'll call
it the Kazaam light I thought of other
names for it but cuz I am over at the
energetic forum came up with the idea
and a bunch of us been working on a to
but he was the first one that posted
something like it of taking the one
double-a battery cell phone charger that
puts out five volts it's a voltage
booster and running it through a 555
timer circuit which won't work on 1.5
volts you have to boost it up to about
three volts at least to make the 555
timer chip work well Slayer and Johnny
Davros and skywatcher and a whole bunch
of I worked on a bunch of us worked on
this thing this is my my latest thing is
this is one of these lights of America
bulbs go on full blast it's 110 volt
bulb then I'm running through a
transformer in other words I'm taking
the one and a half volts I'm boosting it
up to five and a half I'm running it
through a pulse width modulator 555
timer circuit that's allowing me to go
through a transformer and boost the
voltage up to the 110 volts that I need
to make that lights of America bulb work
and this is why I'm kind of excited
that's about 50 milliamps and I haven't
been able to run these 110 volt bulbs at
that kind of an amp draw before off of
one double-a battery so if you do the
math on this thing the wattage output
depending on how much that cell phone
charger is eating which is an unknown
but it looks good to me so I thought I
would post this and show the circuit and
what this is is like I say it's a
one-and-a-half volt cell phone charger
double-a battery bumps the voltage to
five and a half it runs through that 555
timer chip you can freeze frame this and
probably duplicate the circuit
quite easily it's a very simple 555
timer circuit with no potentiometers
I've got fixed resistors here I'm just
going into a TI P 3 o5 5 now I'm taking
one of these transformers here and
running it backwards it's a three point
seven volt transformer taken apart you
can't run it without taking it apart
taking the diodes out of it but I'm
running it backwards to get the voltage
up to where I need to run that 110 volt
bulb I've got a diode here to protect
the timer chip I found out if you put a
diode right there you can keep the back
spikes from eating your 555 timer chip
and I'm lid motor and that's the date
today you can also run this on a solar
cell phone charger quite nicely and you
can also run one of these uh CFL bulbs
if you put a potentiometer right in here
to vary the frequency to get that to
resonate but this is pretty neat
enjoy work on this project I'm going to
do some more testing but I'm going to
crank this up you'll see this get a
little bit brighter here and that's the
top end at about 87 millions and that's
putting out quite a bit of light that
goes down to the 50 and that goes up to
the 87 milliamps but that's pretty good
pretty good run right there and I'm
thinking this would be a real handy
light to have around you could put this
in a box box it up real nice and use one
of these cell phone chargers as the
power supply can get up handful of these
doublea's you could run for a long time
in an emergency on that kind of a light
bulb so anyway that's my my latest
circuit by the way there's my famous 25
Oh Maria's death that I use instead of a
Clinton geometers I put that rheostat
right here on the power rail and that
lets me control lots of things just with
that one little device right there but
that's the last thing I've been working
on I call this the Kazaam light because
Kazaam was the one that
was the first post of video on using the
cellphone charger to run a 555 timer
circuit